SVG Learning Notes

Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) is an XML markup language for describing
two-dimensional vector graphics. Basically SVG is to graphics what XHTML is to
text.

* SVG Elements

** Coordinate Systems, Transformations and Units
http://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/coords.html

For all media, the SVG canvas describes "the space where the SVG content is
rendered." The canvas is infinite for each dimension of the space, but rendering
occurs relative to a finite rectangular region of the canvas. This finite
rectangular region is called the SVG viewport.

*** The initial coordinate system

For the outermost svg element, the SVG user agent determines an initial viewport
coordinate system and an initial user coordinate system such that the two
coordinates systems are identical. The origin of both coordinate systems is at
the origin of the viewport, and one unit in the initial coordinate system equals
one "pixel" (i.e., a px unit as defined in CSS2 ([CSS2], section 4.3.2) in the
viewport. In most cases, such as stand-alone SVG documents or SVG document
fragments embedded (by reference or inline) within XML parent documents where
the parent's layout is determined by CSS [CSS2] or XSL [XSL], the initial
viewport coordinate system (and therefore the initial user coordinate system)
has its origin at the top/left of the viewport, with the positive x-axis
pointing towards the right, the positive y-axis pointing down, and text rendered
with an "upright" orientation, which means glyphs are oriented such that Roman
characters and full-size ideographic characters for Asian scripts have the top
edge of the corresponding glyphs oriented upwards and the right edge of the
corresponding glyphs oriented to the right.


** clipPath element and clip-=ath property

The clipping path restricts the region to which paint can be
applied. Conceptually, any parts of the drawing that lie outside of the region
bounded by the currently active clipping path are not drawn.

A clipping path is defined with a clipPath element. A clipping path is
used/referenced using the clip-path property.

A clipping path is conceptually equivalent to a custom viewport for the
referencing element. Thus, it affects the rendering of an element, but not the
element's inherent geometry. The bounding box of a clipped element (meaning, an
element which references a clipPath element via a clip-path property, or a child
of the referencing element) must remain the same as if it were not clipped

Clippath usage in the publisher:
[[./clippath.jpg]]

** Coordinate system transformations

A new user space (i.e., a new current coordinate system) can be established by
specifying transformations in the form of a ¡®transform¡¯ attribute on a
container element or graphics element or a ¡®viewBox¡¯ attribute on an ¡®svg¡¯,
¡®symbol¡¯, ¡®marker¡¯, ¡®pattern¡¯ and the ¡®view¡¯ element. The ¡®transform¡¯
and ¡®viewBox¡¯ attributes transform user space coordinates and lengths on
sibling attributes on the given element (see effect of the ¡®transform¡¯
attribute on sibling attributes and effect of the ¡®viewBox¡¯ attribute on
sibling attributes) and all of its descendants. 


* Sites
http://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/SVG
http://www.svgbasics.com/

* Useful links
http://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/render.html

* Demos
http://labs.sawyerhollenshead.com/lab/svg-clippath/
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/SVG#EXAMPLES

